[Music]
welcome to revolution radio
the most disruptive channel on the
planet rebooting reimagining
and revolutionizing the health and
wellness scene
bringing back your grandmother's wisdom
without the misogyny racism and
homophobia
so i want to welcome everybody to
revolution radio and today we have dr
thomas seyfried
um on the show i'm very excited to have
you um i've been following you for a
long time you're you're somebody who i
think is one of the most important
voices that
we can hear about our health today
welcome um i'd love you to introduce
yourself and just tell us about yourself
yeah well thank you joel it's uh it's
it's a pleasure to be here today
um well i'm a professor of biology at
boston college
i have been here since 1985.
so 35 years um before that i was at yale
university for nine years
i was a a postdoc and then on the
faculty at yale in the department of
neurology
and then before that i was at urbana
illinois where i received my
doctorate degree at the university of
illinois in biochemistry and genetics
so we started working on mouse genetics
um i got my degree in genetics
and then biochemistry of gangliosides
which are lipids that
are part of the brain mostly um they you
see
you see them stored in certain diseases
like tay sachs disease and these kinds
of diseases it's a it's an inborn era of
metabolism
but you know we were investigating the
structure and function of these
molecules
and then it kind of morphed into um
epilepsy when i was at neurology at yale
every
most of the faculty were working on
epilepsy
so we did a lot of work on mapping genes
for epilepsy
with the hope of improving outcome in
patients we had
a lot of mouse models of epilepsy that
we mapped the genes
um and then it became clear that
many of these seizure disorders could be
managed with ketogenic diets
so you know we did a lot of work on
on developing mouse models for ketogenic
therapy and um
uh showed that you know regardless of
what kind of seizure disorder it was
this
ketogenic diet had significant impact on
managing seizures and all kinds of
seizures so it didn't really make any
difference what the gene
defect was that the diet was able to
manage
manage the seizures so we became more
interested in how the diet was managing
epilepsy
um than in the actual you know genetic
mechanisms responsible for the disease
sure how long ago was this that was
i started i started at yale so
um and we were you know still off and on
working on that so this probably started
big time in the year in the late 80s
early 90s
but interestingly enough when i was at
yale i i tried to get an
internal grant through the medical
school to study
ketogenic diet and they said oh don't
you know don't waste your time on that
it's kind of passe
it was a it was a big thing in the 1920s
but you know we have all these new drugs
that
that work much better and so i didn't
think much of it
um until i get to boston college you
know 15 years later one of my students
said hey you know this ketogenic diet
looks interesting can i go to a meeting
in washington the state of washington
seattle there's a big
thing going on out there jim abrams was
there of the charlie foundation he got
everybody all excited about the
ketogenic diet
so she came back my student mariana came
back so we got to work on this ketogenic
diet
and i said yeah i don't know how
exciting it is people think that yale
they think it's nothing you know so
so i said we started getting into it
based force on one of my students
and then it became clear that the
ketogenic diet in for managing epilepsy
works by calorie restriction
so we could get the exact same results
as long as we restricted the diet
and if you don't restrict the diet we
weren't able to manage the seizures
um and uh so it became calorie
restriction is basically what it is to
manage seizures and that and we knew
that
because water only fasting will stop
seizures as well as these
ketogenic diets was there a difference
between a carbohydrate-rich diet and
ketogenic diet
was one more powerful than the other at
reduction uh well if you ate both diets
at libitum eating all you want there was
zero effect and um and john freeman the
late
john freeman who was one of the pioneers
in the ketogenic diet
he told me he says every now and then we
get a kid with epilepsy that really
loves to eat all this fat
um and they never have they never have
seizures managed
it's only when you restrict the diet
that you really get management
and you know at the same time we had a
big parallel plan
research program in cancer and we were
looking at
lipid biochemistry and angiogenesis and
some of the basic fundamental aspects of
cancer
and then it just happened that the two
the two
research projects overlapped um
why don't we evaluate as a matter of
fact we had a drug
that someone gave us a company gave us
that oh this drug
you might get a lot of uh uh effects
from this drug
it was an anti-ganglioside drug actually
block ganglioside biosynthesis
we gave it to the mice that had tumors
and we said whoa look at this drug works
really well
it's it's it restricts the tumor growth
but then we found out the mouse ate the
mice
who got the drug ate so much less food
and then um
when we when we took another group of
mice with the same tumor and just
restricted their food intake to the same
level that this blockbuster drug
you got the same results so the the
results had nothing to do with the drug
it had everything to do with the
amount of food restriction and um and
that got us on to the idea that what the
hell is going
on with this food restriction it works
just like stopping epilepsy it stops the
cancer
and then we found out that when you do
this to a mouse
um it's like a water only fast for a
human it's like drinking water
it's like therapeutic fasting and what
happens is the blood sugar goes down
and the ketones go up this is a natural
response to the absence of food
and that's when we ran into the work of
otto warburg
who said that the cancers are driven by
glucose and
mitochondria defective so we knew that
you needed a good mitochondria to
metabolize ketone bodies
so the cancer cells can't metabolize
ketone bodies and they're surviving on
the glucose
right um so i want to slow down just a
bit just to make it clear so um otto
warburg
um basically this was the assumption and
we know for my listeners
um you know you're one of a few
different experts so that
my listeners are aware of a ketogenic
diet and i'm really focused on the
mitochondria
um you know how i sort of was alerted to
this is
i started hearing about these onco genes
and i said to myself well what you know
an oncogene is that a gene that that
is causing cancer because you know this
isn't well known
but um is that something you know when
you hear oncogenes
um those are the genes that are
upregulated to be able to burn sugar
is that what it is well in a sense
you're right um we call them
facilitators
so when the mitochondria become damaged
um from any number of
provocative events um if this
if the mitochondria that's the energy
for the cell
oxidative phosphorylation so if that
process
becomes damaged you know acutely the
cell will die
and you'll never get a cancer cell from
a dead cell but if the damage is chronic
uh over you know extended periods of
time
um it gives the cell an opportunity
to shift its metabolism from oxidative
phosphorylation to a fermentation
which doesn't require oxygen and the
oncogenes
are facilitators
of the transition from respiration to
fermentation
so they control pathways that allow the
cells to take in more glucose and
glutamine
and metabolize these two fuels through
these ancient metabolic pathways
so the oncogenes are essentially
facilitators they're not the cause of
the cancer they're facilitating
the transition from one form to another
if you
if you take the cell that's already
neoplastic that is cancerous
uh with the mutations and the oncogenes
and all this
and you put it back into a new cytoplasm
with new mitochondria all those
facilitators turn off and the cell now
restores its growth regulation
and becomes a differentiated cell again
despite the continued
presence of the genetic defects right so
the oncogenes are just
responders to the transit they
facilitate that way the cell
right because you've got to open up the
floodgates to bring in fermentable fuels
and that's what the and that's what the
oncogenes do hif1 alpha
mick raph all these kinds of things okay
well i want to i want to just do
give a real quick basic understanding of
you know how you would explain cancer
um just so people can understand that
you know this is um this is something
that you're very used to talking about
i've heard you speak many times
and um for people hearing this for the
first time this is kind of a shocking
statement
that um you know everyone thinks that
cancer is genetic
everyone will tell me you know i had an
uncle with this you know with melanoma
and you know they're talking along the
lines that cancer is a genetic disease
and that we don't know what the root
cause is so just real briefly how would
you describe what cancer is just to the
average person
um you know yeah well i think that i
think that um
that that that's probably one of the
greatest tragedies in the history of
medicine
no bar none i i've said it before the
misunderstanding of cancer as a genetic
disease
will in time become recognized as the
single greatest
tragedy um in other words you had a
false understanding of what the nature
of the disease
actually is and it still perpetuates
today
so um and and um you need to know
that otto warburg was in fact correct
when he defined
cancer as a disease of energy metabolism
uh involving defective mitochondria and
a lot of resistance in the academic well
there's a lot of
data that provides misinformation and
makes it look like you know cancer cells
um have normal respiration but that's
not true when you
really look at the data but what a tumor
cell is essentially
what cancer is are simply a group of
cells growing out of control
they have lost their ability to regulate
growth
so they continue to proliferate and
um and that's and and and then of course
it destabilizes the local tissue
micro environment leading to an inflamma
inflammatory
kind of condition and um
where metastasis comes from is basically
we have immune cells in our body and
whenever our
tissues are damaged like from a cut or a
wound or some
contusion or whatever we have
macrophages these are
our cells that are part of the immune
system
and they facilitate wound healing uh
they're kind of
facilitated they can reconfigure the the
damaged micro environment they can
rebuild new blood vessels they can do a
lot of things to
to you know reconfigure tissue damage
but when the tech when the tissue
damages
is chronic um uh these cells
um can fuse like if you have some cells
that are proliferating but they can't
spread around they just kind of
proliferate in place
um and they create a disturbance like a
wound that does not heal
so our immune cells come in to try to
heal this wound and in the process of
trying to heal the wound
they spew out growth factors that are
supposed to have
facility they're supposed to help wound
healing but they act like gasoline on
these incipient cancer cells
so they grow faster and then the cells
fuse that this macrophage will
fuse with one of these uh proliferating
kind of stem cells
and then you have this kind of hybrid
cell now this
cell is already genetically programmed
to move around your body
because it acts like a militia in the
body if you find a disturbance they come
out of the bloodstream
rush into a particular area and try to
and try to facilitate wound healing
and we also have the local police
department these are macrophages that
actually reside in the tissues
themselves
and they're designed to handle very
small incidents
of tissue damage and repair and
replacement well those cells
in in a in a in an incipient cancer
they can also fuse with these cells so
you get a you get kind of a
a lot of cells doing programmed to do
what they do in a wrong context
and then it leads to an escalating
situation a biological chaos
so you have all these cells basically
screaming at each other
metabolically and it leads to chaos
fusion hybridization and then you have
these cells that spread around
and become what they call metastatic
cancer cells but basically they're part
of our tissues
that have become genetically unstable
leading to um proliferation dependent on
fermentation fuel
so when you look at the evolution of
species on the planet
before oxygen came into the atmosphere
some 2.5 billion years ago
all the organisms that existed on the
planet then were all fermenters because
there was no oxygen
so these pathways of energy metabolism
through fermentation are ancient
very ancient pathways because all the
organisms that existed before oxygen
before oxygen
were all fermenters so they when oxygen
came into the environment there were
certain cells that could trap this
this oxygen and use it to make energy
and these cells then became some sort of
a hybrid
also and the mitochondria are a bacteria
that were able to capture oxygen and
they fused with another kind of cell and
they became metazoan cells which are
eventually us today
so in our bodies when we have cancer
these these cells are falling back
on these ancient pathways and they're
being and during that time
2.5 billion years ago all the organisms
on the planet were highly proliferative
they proliferated like crazy as long as
the fermentable fuels and the
environment were there
and when the fermentable fuels were were
depleted
these organisms which simply die so the
cancer cell is falling back on these
ancient pathways
and will grow uncontrolled as long as
there are fermentable fuels in the
environment
and those two fuels now are glucose and
glutamine we have identified
the two fuels that drive the beast right
okay so
at this point um what i want to make
clear you know we've we talked a lot
i talked a lot about the mitochondria so
at that point in history
now we're we're utilizing oxygen we have
oxidative phosphorylation
and um was that the key to
multicellularity is that what we needed
because yes okay yes yes because that
allowed cells to uh
to sort themselves to do divisional
each cell would do have a different
division separate different functions
so metazoans you move from single cell
organisms to metazoans which are
multicellular organisms
and then you these cells could take on
specific functions and division of labor
labor so to speak and that becomes the
state of differentiation
and now we have the ultimate in all in
all modern organisms that exist on the
planet mammals
i mean there is a division of labor
kidney cells do one thing
liver cells do another neurons do
another and and the mitochondria are
present in all these different kinds of
cells
and they all uh regulate the energy
metabolism in these different kinds of
cells
so so when when some provocative agent
like an inflammatory
uh condition of chemical carcinogen if
you will viral infection if you will
whatever it is would damage the the
mitochondria in a particular cell
that cell will either die or if the
damage is not so acute
um can upregulate a fermentation
metabolism driven by these facilitating
oncogenes
okay now what happens then is the is the
uh
mitochondria throw out these reactive
oxygen species
their their radicals because their
respiration becomes defective
and the radical reactive oxygen species
are carcinogenic and mutagenic
so the somatic mutations that you see in
the cancer cells
are coming as the result uh downstream
effect of these
reactive oxygen species yet the field
continues to focus
on all these metabo these mutations
thinking that they're important they're
actually downstream
phenomena uh absolutely unrelated to the
or uh to the cause of the disease
okay okay so so i want to before we get
into that there's
lots of different things i want to talk
to you about because i just wanted to
clear up the science for people
um because you know when i started to
talk about this a lot you know i've been
seeing patients here for
20 years and you know i love my patients
they've taught me everything about life
but they're getting such a completely
different message so a lot of them are
worried about you know the causes of
cancer so so basically what you're
saying is that there isn't one cause of
cancer
some assault to our body our cells and
there becomes damage in some way it's a
mitochondria that gets damaged
and as a result of the mitochondria
breaking down the dna
becomes distorted and unfortunately
medicine is focusing on the distorted
dna rather than the root cause
which is the actual production of energy
and the the um
the fumes coming out of the mitochondria
are really corroding the area and this
is causing the disease
yeah well you know in so many words
that's true and and
and you can cause that problem like for
example there are oncogenic viruses
papilloma viruses um you you have the
um uh what is it the liver virus there
hepatitis virus they're they're right
those viruses
either either the virus themselves or
the products blow out the mitochondria
in a chronic way
and therefore you get liver cancer you
get you know papillomas you get all
these kinds of things
and you know you have if you have a um
an occlusion in a particular tissue
where you have a hypoxic region
a little bit of a hypoxic region that
gets
like the oxygen would come in cause
mitochondrial damage then it would
become hypoxia
it's back and forth back and forth and
eventually you end up with the cell that
has damage respiration
and has transitioned into a fermentation
metabolism
you know and some of our you know you
can have genetic risk factors as well
but they're no different than a chemical
carcinogen right okay well this is a so
you basically led read right down to the
path that i wanted you to because i
treat sleep apnea and that's how i got
to in the first place is that in my
investigation of sleep apnea
it came to me directly this was a
metabolic disease
and so when you're saying this hypoxia
you know sleep apnea is is basically
stopping of who stops your breathing i
know we sort of spoke briefly and you
you knew right away you said well sleep
apnea
that would potentially amplify cancer so
based on what you know
chronic intermittent hypoxia which is
what sleep apnea is
what's the effect on cancer in your
opinion well
if you're if the body is inflamed um
you see it's more than if you have
inflammation can cause cancer because it
damages mitochondria
it's a it's an inflammatory situation so
if the body is naturally inflamed
measured by c-reactive protein people
can every time i go to the
to get a blood work i always say what's
my crp you know they say why why you
want to know that because i want to know
if my body is inflamed or not
puts me at risk for a body condition
right so
um so if you know obesity is often not
always associated with
inflammation sleep apnea can happen more
frequently in people that are obese in
general not always
um so you put a inflamed body together
with intermittent hypoxia
and otto warburg clearly said
intermittent hypoxia is the origin of
many cancers
so so you put your body at risk and who
knows what organ
uh by not breathing and being inflamed
uh it could come out with a breast tumor
a prostate cancer a colon cancer it
doesn't make any difference
whatever it is you put your body at risk
for two
two of um provocative uh insults which
is
uh intermittent hypoxia together with
inflammation
and you put yourself at significant risk
for developing a tumor
right okay it's not that complicated
right okay well i this list i've been
speaking about this for a while so
i want to just clarify one more thing um
before we talk about sort of a different
um idea here and that so as a researcher
as a doctor
you're very well read and well traveled
in the in the biologic
areas here so to me when i heard a lot
of what you said you said we took the
cancerous nucleus and put it into a
fresh cytoplasm the cancer disappears
and we took a good dna and put it into
a damaged cytoplasm and cancer happen so
is that is that you know when people are
listening to this you know not to be too
sciency
but you know people know enough because
we're seeing these commercials on tv for
gene targeted therapies and they're
really bothering me because they're
showing these real people
and saying i had this blah blah blah
gene targeted therapy and it's you know
saved my life
um maybe if you could just simplify this
just maybe one more time for anyone
listening to this
um you know that this is you know how
did you how did you personally come to
the conclusion
this is not a genetics do you wake up
one day and say you know what i've been
researching this and that's it it's just
not
a genetic disease this is a this is just
definitely a metabolic disease was there
anything yeah well
it it didn't come um well it came
from the nuclear transfer experiments um
first uh i think um i mean i i had a lot
of evidence that
warburg was correct because i did work i
isola we
my group isolated mitochondria from
cancer cells
and we looked at them very carefully and
we we found all kinds of abnormalities
at the biochemical level i mean they
were just damaged
um but there was no genetic damage in
the mitochondrial dna
in the cell so i said what the hell is
going on here you know but but
the the cardiolippine the lipid inside
the cristae of the mitochondria was
defective
and then we looked at the oxygen the
actual enzymatic activity of oxidative
phosphorylation complexes and they were
abnormal
so clearly these cancer cells were not
respiring
uh effectively so i knew i knew
intrinsically that cancer was a a
mitochondrial disease
and i and i actually read carefully all
of warburg's work and i
even some of the german translations and
and we
i came to the conclusion that he was he
he was correct
but um there had been trickles of
information
over them over decades that looked at
cancer
from a developmental perspective not not
even
challenging or recognizing for the most
part
warburg's theory of cancer and just
asking does a cancer nuclear can it
trend the nucleus from a tumor cell can
it direct
normal development and people were
expecting that it would not be able to
direct normal development
so they took nuclei to tumor cells and
put them into new
eggs or new stem cells and they were
able to
develop a mouse or a frog or something
from the nucleus of a tumor cell
and i said you know what that what's
going on with that because according to
the somatic mutation theory these things
should have been
dysregulated in their growth if genes
really do that
so what i what i did these guys were all
very distinguished developmental
biologists by the way some of the
leaders in the world and still remain
that way
rudy anish at mit is considered one of
the foremost leaders in
mammalian developmental biology but
these guys were not
asking the question does this do these
experiments
support or reject the somatic mutation
theory of cancer
so what i did is i i i reevaluated all
of these different kinds of studies and
frogs and mice and various kinds of
human fusion cells and all this
and put it all together in one in one
paper
linking it all that these studies viewed
in a different light
directly uh uh refute the gene theory of
cancer
so when you when you look at that and
then you say wow
you know this is it's it's no one has
yet been able to argue against the
nuclear transfer experiments
then that led me to further
investigations
where where did this idea come from in
the first place who first said cancer is
a genetic disease
who is this guy it turned out it was
theodore bovary
a very prominent german scientist from
from 1914
he was famous for actually bovery
um was famous for linking gregor
mendel's
abstract traits to chromosomes because
you have to realize
genetics emerged in 1900 uh
as a new science uh mainly by finding
that there was a biological basis for
gregor mendel's abstract traits so
bovary was one of the first to say that
these
that these factors that mendel were
studying was on chromosomes
but then bovary i don't know what
motivated this guy
he started to say that well let's um
let's think about cancer and basically
he said he thought cancer might be
something to do with chromosomes
but he was extremely apologetic about it
he says listen
he tells he told and it's clear as paper
i don't know anything about cancer
never studied cancer what i'm doing is
purely speculation
and please uh um you know give me some
slack here i i'm probably wrong
and uh he was very apologetic for his
total lack of knowledge about cancer
now he's now he's becomes the founding
father of the whole
the whole border who knew nothing about
cancer so
um now then we you know with the deep
sequencing
you know many years later where you can
sequence thousands and thousands of
genes
well it turns out the number of
scientists have found cancer they have
no mutations no matter how
how hard they look they can't find any
mutations well how can you have a
a a a theory based on mutation we don't
have any mutation
you have a cancer cell with no mutations
well we don't we don't talk about that
and now the recent new recent studies
that have just come out in the last
couple of years
we're finding all these driver genes a
driver gene was defined by
burton vogelstein and others as being
the the kinds of mutations
that are actually responsible for the
origin of the disease
and now we find normal tissues that have
driver gene mutations and never develop
cancer
so we have cancers with no mutations and
and normal tissues with driver mutations
and no cancer and this is all
incomprehensible for
the somatic mutation theory of cancer
and then you have the
which is really interesting is we we go
back and look at
organisms that are like us genetically
and the chimpanzee is one of the closest
relatives we have 98.5
similar in gene sequence and protein uh
sequences and those guys rarely if ever
get cancer
that there's never been a documented
case of breast cancer in a female
chimpanzee and they're almost
genetically the same as us so what the
hell's going on with these guys why they
don't have any cancer
and humans are loaded with cancer right
right right okay
well okay so um i you know you don't
know my background but i do talk a lot
about epigenetics and i you know
um for me this this is a a very
passionate project that i have based on
my life experience but
i want to sort of switch gears here and
say okay so basically
i feel like you're qualified say hey
guys we're looking down the wrong
the road here cancer's different now
when it comes to the real world
here you are you're sharing this message
you've been sharing this for a while
is anyone listening and is there are you
having any impact i know that america
can be very
hard because of how things are
structured but are you having any effect
is is your information or do you get in
trouble
where you are for being so contrarian or
you know what's going on
are people what what's is there any
change that you're
affecting with this information you know
well i i think the information
is is seeping out for people that are
willing
and able uh to look at at the data
okay so um and you have to be i have to
be honest with you when any time you
have a major paradigm change
there are people who just refuse to to
acknowledge it
so the reason we don't have a more um a
general
discussion and understanding is for
several
several reasons one is that simply like
you say um
a lot of people never heard of this all
right so it's a lack of familiarity it's
uh
lack of knowledge unfamiliar you're i
never heard of this stuff
where did this come from all the
textbooks say something different
okay well the textbooks are not up to
date on the scientific literature on a
lot of cases right
and then you have the um the power of
ideology
um you know ideology is stronger than
any gene that i know of i mean no
you know people are are indoctrinated by
religions and by political persuasions
i mean you know how hard it is to to to
break an ideology
if you've been indoctrinated effectively
by either a religion or a
political affiliation or whatever
there's nothing you're going to do to
change this guy's mind
yeah so it's that's ideological
resistance
and then and then of course you have a
lot of people in the industry whose jobs
depend
on not accepting this they can't accept
it because they're they're working on a
totally different thing
we put all three of those together and
that pretty much
encapsulates the failure for this
concept to be
more widespread you know and and
recognized right
so so what i want to you know just let
you know is that so that's where i'm at
with the whole epidemic of sleep apnea
and you said some very important things
apnea is associated with obesity there's
no doubt but as a clinician
my latest patient was a 23 year old
petite female
and so to me this is not a surprise
because that's who i'm seeing
now when i learned how to treat sleep
apnea i was looking for the obese person
with a large neck
right and the paradigm is impossible so
i have a different theory
and when i went to to my into my
neighborhood my you know very
hard-working dentist
they have this obesity image in their
mind and
when i was taking classes they said well
you're going to measure the person's
neck
and if they have a big neck then they
probably have apnea so this is one of
the hardest things that we can talk
about
to change these ideologies but i want to
let you know that i'm coming from
exactly the same background and it's the
same paradigm
sleep apnea is a metabolic disease same
as the same as cancer so we're looking
at the same disease i think we're
looking at the same disease
just from different views so having said
all that you know there's also this
giant fear that when someone gets
diagnosed with cancer
they just drop everything and they go
i've got to go get this out of my body
get chemotherapy or cut it out or
whatever and so there's a giant fear
factor as well both of my parents pass
from pancreatic cancer
and i saw what happened um so for your
you know if you if you were in charge of
research in in america and you had some
say what would you
change about the current cancer industry
you know just in general
because you know people these these
systems are very ingrained in our system
as a standard of care
and anyone who dare goes against them is
called out many different things
including you know being a quack and
that's the issue that i have is that
this industry is not going to be it's
just not easy to change people's opinion
what would you change how would you like
to see this you know in in the industry
because you you're working in this
yeah well i mean knowing knowing what we
know about
the origin of cancer and why the cells
are proliferating out of control
i mean standards of care radiation and
various chemos
and these kinds of things they're all
designed to stop cell proliferation
basically i mean you're going to you're
going to irradiate cells you're going to
break the dna you're going to try to
stop them from proliferating
by creating reactive oxygen species in
the micro environment to break dna
a lot of the chemotherapies are involved
with binding up microtubules or stopping
dna replication or
everything is to stop the proliferation
of the cell
but you have to realize no cell can grow
without energy
and the energy that's coming to drive
the cell is purely fermentation energy
so you realize that what what are the
two fuels that are predominantly driving
fermentation
it's glucose and glutamine and we find
and others and many people have found no
cancer cell can live without glucose and
glutamine
so the strategy to manage cancer becomes
extremely simple
it's not complex now every cancer
is the same whether you have a brain
cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer
colon cancer bladder cancer
they're all fermenters it just happens
to happen in one tissue or another
tissue
so if you know that then the strategy
becomes how do we stop glucose and
glutamine
without harming the rest of the body so
that's why we bring the patients into
therapeutic ketosis
so they transition away from the sugar
the the glucose
and then we target with drugs and
procedures to target the glutamine and
the glucose simultaneously without
harming the rest of the body
so you know the goal is the goal is how
do we manage the disease without harming
the patient
and it's it's and if we know that the
cell can't live without two fuels
then the strategy becomes crystal clear
what you do
so the question is why is that not being
done
why is the national cancer institute and
all the pharmaceutical agents
because their their current protocols
and treatment strategies are based on
extremely expensive drugs
and procedures that generate massive
revenue
so so you're not going to be able and
but the
bottom line here is that this is not an
insignificant thing because we're
sacrificed as the result of not moving
in this direction
we essentially sacrifice 1600 people a
day
dying from cancer because we don't want
to move in the direction that needs to
be
uh that needs to we need to move into
right
this is the tragedy the tragedy is 1600
people a day in the united states
dying from cancer in china it's 8 100 a
day
dying from cancer and we bring these
poor souls into these
into these clinics and we irradiate and
poison them
and with the hope of stopping stopping
cell proliferation
hair falls out yet people get sick as a
dog all these kinds of problems
and that doesn't have to happen and
people will say
well how come your pro how come this
isn't known how come you're not doing
this how
because it does no one has yet found out
how to generate revenue with this
and their cancer is a revenue generating
disease yeah
so there you have it go you'll go back
to the same three things i'm unfamiliar
i'm an ideologue oh my job that prevents
me from doing this
all three of those things happen okay
and so thank you for saying that because
that's you know that's a big theme of
what i talk about in my book now i'm
canadian
and i come from a more socialistic
system um
it's completely different so what you
just said to me you know i've been
leaving the us for 20 years and it's
obvious to me that these drivers
of this whole industry you can it's very
hard to stop these powerful industries
but why do you think something like this
can't take root more in a country
like canada because these these diseases
are going to bankrupt
all of us because i don't know if people
figure this out yet but this is how
people die these days they die from
heart disease
from cancer neurodegenerative disease
which are technically in my opinion all
mitochondrial diseases but
so what do you think i i want to also
the same question is
you know are there other countries that
you have collaborated with
where they're starting to say hey you
know just because the industry goes this
way
can we buck the trend what can we do
tell me tell me is there anything well
i i think you know i've worked with a
lot of cancer patients from canada a lot
of physicians
the socialistic system is is locked
as hard or maybe even more more into the
standards of care
um in fact when it becomes government
approved
it becomes even harder to change the
damn standard of care
so i work with the english the germans
the canadians they are so locked into
this socialized standard of care
that you you need an atomic bomb to
change it so
um and i think if we go into a
socialized medicine
we're going to be locked into the
radiating and and and
poisoning people um to make them healthy
can you believe this
you i they talk about talking about
putting cholesterol stands in water i
want to sort of
now we're talking about a general health
care issue what's your opinion on
cholesterol statins how do they fit into
what you think
is this related to cancer do you think
cholesterol sounds are safe
are they a good thing and should they be
put in the water supply like some people
are saying
no i i mean david diamond has clearly
shown and others have shown that these
statins don't do anything they can you
know they're not
it's another thing it's it's like um you
know red herring you're looking at
cholesterol
triglyceride levels are more important
for heart disease than our cholesterol
levels
you have to look at these things and
this is another thing that you know that
the industry has found
to to make everybody fearful of
cholesterol
and therefore you know it's it's another
thing it's just that you need to educate
people
but you have these big forces in place
like you've mentioned
yeah that prevent the the information
from getting out
and even if it gets out and it's it's
not it's contrary to what your
institution believes
you'll be vilified the issue the issue
here
in my case in our case is when you're
standing on a bedrock of solid knowledge
you know it's hard to um it's hard to
challenge that
when when you have such a massive amount
of evidence supporting what you're
saying
um so you know it's just a matter of
time
and besides you know with cholesterol
and you know this kind of thing
um you know if you're oh well you might
have a heart issue well you're not gonna
die
you know a miserable death in three
weeks from this but with cancer
you know uh these people are being
tortured before they die
i mean this is terrible i mean not only
do you have a disease that's
potentially life-threatening but many of
the treatments can actually provoke it
some of the new immunotherapies that we
have the so-called pdl-1 inhibitors that
you hear advertised
as being the new i mean they can make
some lung cancers grow twice as fast
they have these people on tv on
commercials saying i do to the pdl1
pathway
yeah so um this is always this sort of
leads me to the same discussion is that
um a lot of these diseases are diseases
of communication rather than diseases of
science any real scientists
who would look into this will see what
you saw basically
so then i guess the question is how do
we change the messaging about this
is there any you have any thoughts on
what what could we do
to get to help share this message and
what i'm doing right here right now just
so you know
is i believe your information is so
critical to health and i watch my
parents die
watch what their doctors did and i want
to share your message with as many
people as possible
and you know you've been thinking about
this for a long time and i hear your
frustration and i
agree with you um but what do you think
do you have any thoughts and you know
i'm trying to do you know bring this
information on a completely different
way i'm trying to use much more of an
entertainment
infotainment focus
the momentum for the change will have to
come from the bottom not the top
um and i think the bottom line is people
want to live
um and there's there's i i can't tell
you how many
uh calls i get from cancer patients and
physicians the
the likes of which um it it you know the
bottom line is that
i is that the patients once they listen
people aren't stupid
um they go on the internet they start
looking at these things
and they see people that are living uh
with who had stage four various stage
four cancers
um who are doing pretty well and they're
saying
uh you know what did you do why why so
they'll run to their
uh oncology center and say you know i i
want metabolic therapy
and the poor guys will say well i never
heard of that if we're any good i would
have heard about it
at all about it the medical students
aren't even trained to know anything
about it
so um so it's going to have to come from
the consumer
and the sick patient is your consumer
yeah and if the consumer says i don't i
want metabolic therapy and i
instead of chemo and radiation all of a
sudden these guys are going to have to
change their tune
so um and you know once we have enough
case reports written i'm working with
physicians
all the time writing up individual case
reports
on people who have used metabolic
therapy
as an alternative not as a complimentary
as an alternative
to standards of care and they seem to do
better live longer have a higher quality
of life
what's wrong with that what's wrong with
it oh my god okay well we're going to be
for sure
posting your content information so
people will be able to find you
and um you know um hopefully if things
go well and everything after watching my
book i'd love to you know maybe do
another interview i really appreciate
your time thank you very much well thank
you i hope
i hope it helps you out and your cartoon
characters and everything else all right
absolutely well you got to do what you
got to do yeah you do you do
all right joel listen i'll let you go
thank you very much thank you very much
too bye now have a good day bye